>> Bianca Gandolfo: So dynamic
programming is a optimization technique.
We talked a little bit about optimization
earlier in this workshop and
we did a couple different
caching exercises.
So cue that up in your brain because
this is gonna build on top of that, and
it's also gonna build on top of our
previous example of make change,
with all of those recursive
calls in a brute force solution.
So you may remember that,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're
doing a lot of calculations, repeated
calculations, right, for our make change.
I painted this, by the way,
cuz I'm a nerd.
We have a lot of repeated calculations.
And so what dynamic programming
says is if you can break
it into the subproblems and
the subproblems are optimal,
meaning that they are going to
give you the correct answer,
you can cache these values.
Just like we did with the factorial,
with the memoize for the factorial,
that's secretly a dynamic
programming solution.
And so the reason it's
called dynamic programming,
which is not really reflective of
what it is, is kinda similar to why
JavaScript is called JavaScript and
it's nothing to do with Java.
It's kinda like a marketing thing, and
these really smart people take advantage
of the fact that their management
doesn't really understand what they do.
And so dynamic programming,
they chose the name dynamic programming
because it was making some government
grant maker more likely to give them
funding to continue their research.
And then JavaScript,
the reason that we call it JavaScript is
because it kind of, Java was really in.
And we wanted to make it seem like,
JavaScript's kinda like Java,
we're cool too.
So there's kind of,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know,
I just think of it as deceptive
marketing to either convert people
to supporting a programming language or
get someone to give you money so
you can keep researching this
mathematical concept as you please.
And here we have the name
Dynamic Programming.
You could think of it as just caching.
If you have a solution that you can cache,
that's dynamic programming.
So there is a couple of ways that
you can cache your solutions.
So we have a top-down recursive approach,
which is what we've been doing a lot of,
where we start from, say 12, right,
which sort of our end result.
And then we break it up
into smaller pieces and
we cache if we recalculate something,
right?
And so
that's a top-down recursive technique.
And then there's also
a bottom-up iterative technique,
where you can translate the recursion
into an iterative solution,
starting from the simplest problem,
which would be make change 0.
So start with make change zero,
you calculate that.
Make change one, you calculate that.
You cache it.
So if it comes up again,
you then just have it on hand.
So one starts from the top and
goes down, the other one starts from the
bottom and goes up, and it's iterative.
And so that's really the key
to dynamic programming,
it's just this memoization step.
So all the stuff that you
did in the memoization and
caching part of this workshop is
all related to dynamic programming.
And it's kind of intimidating, and
I don't think the thing that's
intimidating about dynamic programming
is necessarily the memoization step.
I think that the hard part about
the dynamic programming is actually
the recurgent involved in reasoning
about these subproblems, and
being able to trace our minds through how
our code executes to solve these problems.
And so the way to get through that
really is through practicing recursion,
and better improving your mental
model of how your code executes,
doing things like the call stack
game on your own, or talking, rubber
ducking we call it, where you just talk
out loud about what your code is doing.
Again, I think an anti-pattern in
learning is to type something, hit play,
see what happens.
We can do that really easy in JavaScript,
right,
we just refresh and
we hit Enter in that console.
Versus like in compiling, which you
kinda have to wait a little longer and
maybe you're less tempted
to make these shortcuts.
But really being able to reason
through what you're writing versus
just having your execution environment
tell you if you have an error or
if your solution isn't what you expect.
So pro tip.
What else do I wanna tell you
about dynamic programming?
Question?
>> Speaker 2: Do interviewers,
when you are in an environment where
you're on a computer doing the interview,
do interviewers kind of watch for how many
times you try to just run the code instead
of understanding what can [CROSSTALK]?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You
can't run the code actually.
So in a typical interview environment,
you aren't running the code, you're either
writing it on a whiteboard or you're
doing it in something like a Google Doc.
You might even do it in text editor, but
not typically in an environment
where you can run it.
So it's not that they're not looking for
it, it's like you don't really
even have that available to you.
And so you need to learn how to
debug your code in your head.
And so how you do that is
you just choose some inputs,
make sure your inputs aren't too
simple because sometimes the simple
inputs can hide edge cases,
so a pretty complex input.
And run that, just like we're
doing that call stack game, but
maybe you don't have to do the call
stack part if it's not recursion.
So that's one way to go
about manually debugging,
and I think that's the best practice.
Even though at first it may
seem like a waste of time,
it may seem like it's taking longer to
go through these problems, in the end,
you'll be better for it.
Yeah, cool, okay, good questions.
Any other questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
so the difference between dynamic
programming and a divide and
conquer technique is that the dynamic
programming has overlapping subproblems.
So when we're doing make change, for
example, there are many times that we're
calculating, like make change of five,
that's always gonna be the same answer.
Versus our merge sort example,
where that merge step isn't overlapping,
each step has to be done individually and
it's gonna change every time.
And so that's what I think about when I
think about the difference between dynamic
programming, and divide and conquer.
They're still recursive approaches, but
one of them has some repeated
calculation that you can cache and
access, while one of them you can't,
you have to just go through it each time.
Dynamic programming problems are also
really common with really big,
like Google is really famous for
asking dynamic programming problems.
So if you are studying to go,
you wanna work at a big company or
something like that, I would focus mostly
on dynamic programming, especially cuz
it can be tough to do it within a certain
timeframe while you're under pressure.
So I would definitely practice these.